So we can reach dad game screen now and the computer is guessing a number here.
A random number which excludes our real number for the first initial guess.
Now we need to make sure that subsequent guesses can be made when we pressed a lower or greater button
here in the game screen for that.
Let's add a function inside of our functional component because dysfunction will need access to the
surrounding state and the surrounding component and give it any name you want like next guest's handler
or whatever name you prefer.
And this is a function which you actually should get an argument that direction in which the next guest
should be so lower or greater now.
The first thing I want to do here is I want to make sure that we validate the direction.
Now this function here should be executed when the the button down there are pressed.
But of course the direction value so the value we passing as an argument should differ based on the
button.
So here we have the next guest handler connected to on press without parentheses to just to provide
that pointer at our function to on press so that this will execute eventually when the user presses
this but I went to pre configure the argument which will be passed to next guest handler when this is
executed.
We can do this with BIND bind this because the first argument to bind is always what this should be
referring to in the function that's getting called doesn't matter here so we can just bind it to this.
The second value we pass here to bind will be the first argument received by our function though.
Therefore this will be the direction received here and it's of course up to you which logic you use
here.
To me it makes sense to simply use a string where here we pass lower as a string and for the other button
we pass greater.
So did we have these two identifiers which are essentially passed to the next gas handler so the direction
will be lower or greater.
And now we want to validate whether Dad is correct.
So for example if you selected a number of let's say 55 and the computer guessed 60.
Then if you give a computer the hint of the numbers should be greater.
That's obviously wrong because the number should be smaller Your number was 55.
Guess what 60.
It's incorrect if you tell the computer that the number it should gets next should be greater than 60.
Right.
So we want to validate this.
Never here we can check if direction is equal to lower.
So if you pressed the its lower button and the current guess however is smaller then props user choice.
So the computer actually guessed the number that is smaller than our choice then lower is the wrong
hint right.
Because the number does need to be lower.
It needs to be greater because the guess already was too low so that's one possible scenario where we're
getting a wrong hint D alternative and I'll wrap this into parentheses to make it really clear that
this is one condition here.
So the alternative to that.
The second condition when a check is that the direction here is actually greater.
And at the same time the current guests already is greater than our choice.
And then it's also an incorrect hint.
Just in the opposite direction.
In both cases where we're giving a incorrect hint I want to throw an alert and you learned that you
can do this with the alert API the alert class you can import from risk native India and then in here
in our check I will use alert alert to fro an alert with a title of let's say don't lie.
Of course you can pick any name you want.
I'm escaping that single quote which I went to print as a character here with a leading backslash because
otherwise it would close the string because I'm using single quotes to surround my strings.
So that's my title.
And then the text could be you know that this is wrong.
But of course you can have any text you want here can also be less moralistic if you want to know one
two percent one button here and button says already explained are objects you pass to that third argument
array which alert takes and there the text could be sorry and the style could be canceled and you don't
need to provide on press handler if you don't provide one the only thing that will happen is that clicking
the button will close the alert which is fine.
So here we're giving the user a tap on his fingers so to say and making sure that no incorrect hints
are given.
And I want to return here.
So I want to stop the function execution if we have such incorrect value.
If we make it past does it block.
So if we gave a correct hint then we want to generate a new random number.
So here I want to check if direction is lower.
And now we know that was correct.
So that computer should guess a number that's lowered and the previous number then we know that a new
random number should be generated toward a current guess is the maximum upper bound.
So therefore we can call generate random between again and the minimum number.
Well that is probably one.
But what if the user already guessed no number where we told the computer that it was too small.
And then when then we would have a problem here because the lowest boundary is not always one.
What if the user guessed 10 and we said no it has to be greater.
Well then the user guesses 50 and we say it should be lowered and at the computer should of course and
guess again.
But it should not gas below 10 because we already mentioned that this is too small earlier.
So our current maximum and minimum should adjust over time as we give hints regarding whether the number
two computer a guest is too small or too big.
So F4 we can use a number hook provided by reactants to use ref hook.
Now you might know dead hook as a hook that allows you to create a object which you can bind to inputs
so to your input elements and jazz acts to get access to them in your code.
That's one way of using it but use ref also allows you to do something else which is pretty cool.
It allows you to define a value which survives component renders.
So which survives to this component is rebuilt.
And that's exactly what we need here because we want to lock in minimum and maximum which we can change
but which isn't regenerated just because the component is rendered again.
So here at the top of this component after initializing the state we can create a new constant current
low maybe where a use ref is one and then another a constant current high where a use ref is one hundred.
These are our initial boundaries we're using for the random number and now we can update these references
in here.
So we know the direction should be lower.
What we can do in that case instead of instantly generating a new number we can set current high dot
current because the references generated by react are objects that have a current property where the
actual value is stored in.
So we set current equal to current guests.
So what we're saying is if I'm telling you the computer Dad number you guessed is too big and you should
guess a lower one then I know this number which I guessed is my current high the number which is correct
can't be hired in this one.
So I saved a number I just guessed as my heard high.
And again these reference constants here are not regenerated when this component is created again.
Instead if they have been initialized once a bit like the state actually then they're stored detached
from that component and react recognizes that they have been initialized already and it will not regenerate
them but instead initialized current high with the previously stored value.
So it's a bit like if you were managing this in a state the difference to the state instead if you changed
the value stored in there the component thousand we render it because we don't want that here.
I don't want to re render it component just because I'm saving on you high that has no impact on my
view on my j as X code.
It just has an impact on my logic but for Dad I don't need to re rendered a component.
That's why I use a reference here instead of a state.
So that's happening if it's lower else.
So if we told the computer that the guest was too small and the actual numbers should be higher should
be greater.
Well in that case we set the current low to the current guests because then we know we have a lower
boundary.
And now the goal is or the trick is to generate a new random number which takes these boundaries into
account.
So where we used to current low with our ref and adult current as a minimum and current high dot current
is a maximum and I want to exclude the current guests so we can't guess the same number again here so
that for the next role will definitely get a different number so that stands something I store in a
constant next number.
This is generated here.
When the next guest's handler is executed which happens when we treat tab one of these buttons.
And now next number is the next number we want to use.
So now we can simply do as we can call set current guests and add next number.
Now nowadays component will be re rendered and it will output the next guests so let's give that a try.
For now we have no.
The game is over a condition but at least you can try guessing numbers here.
So I entered 50 free as my number.
Now we start in the computer guest a 5.
If I now say greater we get the warning because we light we had 50 free as a number so to guess is too
high.
It should be lower now it's 28.
Well that's too low it should be greater.
So if I tap lower I get the warning if I tap greater we go up now 78.
And now at this moment 20 free the previous guests will be our lower boundary.
And now when I tap lower 78 the current guest will be our upper boundary.
So the next guests will certainly not be above 78 and not be below 20 free.
But it's still too slow and too low.
That's too big.
I mean that's too low.
Let's use a greater one.
Lower one and that would be the correct one.
Now.
For now we have nothing that checks Weber do you.
Computer guessed correctly.
So that's the next thing we'll have to implement here.